.. sectnum::
  :prefix: 7.
  :start: 1
  :depth: 2

What is a Sampling Distribution?
################################

Parameters and Statistics
=========================

.. sidebar:: Parameters

  A number that describes a characteristic of a **population**

  Example: Population mean (:math:`\mu`)

.. sidebar:: Statistic

  A number that describes a characteristic of a **sample**

  Example: Sample mean (:math:`\bar{x}`)

Parameters are usually not known because we cannot examine an entire population.
However, a Statistic can be taken directly from the sample data.

.. note::

	:math:`p` represents a Population Proportion while :math:`\hat{p}` represents the Sample Proportion (used to estimate unknown parameter :math:`p`)

Example:

``A poll asked a random sample of 515 U.S. adults whether or not they believe
in ghosts. Of the respondents, 160 said “Yes.”``

What is the **population**, the **parameter**, the **sample**, and the **Statistic** in the problem?

Population:
  All U.S. adults

Parameter:
  The proportion of the adults that believe in ghosts

Sample:
  The 515 people interviewed

Statistic:
  :math:`\frac{160}{512} = 0.31`, the proportion of the sample that believes in ghosts


Sampling Variability
====================

.. sidebar:: Definition

  **Sampling Distribution:**
    The distribution of values taken by the statistic in all possible samples
    of the same size from the same population.

Sampling Variability can be best explained by asking the question *"What would
happen if we took many samples?"*

Steps to answer question:
  1. Take a large number of samples from the same Population
  2. Calculate the statistic (ex. sample mean :math:`\bar{x}`) for each sample
  3. Make a  graph of the values of the Statistic
  4. Examine the distribution of the graph (Shape, Center, Spread, Unusual Features)

Since it is too hard to take all possible samples of size :math:`n` to obtain the
sampling distribution, we can use *simulations* to imitate that process.

The **Population Distribution** gives the values of the variable for all
individuals in the **population**. The **Distribution of Sample Data** shows the
values of the variable for the individuals in the **sample**.

.. note::

  The Population Distribution **and** the Distribution of Sample data describe **individuals**.

  A Sampling Distribution describes how a statistic **varies** from other samples from the population.

Describing Sampling Distributions
=================================
